Queue: 
   
    Queue is interface.
    Queue interface is implemented bu several classes .that are linked list ,arraydequeue and priorityqueue.
    It follows FIFO principle.
    It provides several method like adding,removing...etc.
    It insert the end of the queue and removing elements from the beginning of the queue.


Advantages of Queue:

    1. Flexibility.
    2. Order preservation.
    3. Performance is good.

Disadvantages of Queue:

    1. Limited functionality.
    2. size restrctions.
    3. Memeory usage.


1. priorityqueue:

    It is a class which implemented in the collection framework.
    It follows FIFO principle.
    It implements the queue interface.
    Sometimes elements of the queue are needed to be processed according to the priority that time it will  help.
    Elements are stored  in whcih element have highest priority is always at front and can be accessed or removed first.
    Main operations are insertion,deletion,peek and change priority.


 Advantages of priorityqueue:

     1. Efficient access to the highest priority element.
     2. flexible priority management.
     3. Suitable for various alogorithms and applications.

 Disadvantages of priorityqueue:


     1. Limited access to element by priority.
     2. Cost of maintaining order.
     3. Lock of support for efficient updates.       


2. LinkedList:


   It is a class.Every element is a seperate object with a data part and address part.
   It takes more memory because it stores address also.
   It does not access element  with index.
   Elements are linked using pointers and addresses.
   easy to insertion and deletions operations.
   It implements the list,queue and dequeue interfaces.


Advantages of LinkedList:      


     1. Dynamic size.
     2. Easy to Inserting and Deleting elements in Array.
     3. Flexible Iteration.


Disadvantages of LinkedList:

     1. Slower performance compared to array.
     2. It requires more memory.




3. Arraydequeue:

    It implements queue and dequeue interfaces.
    It is special kind of array that grows and allows users to add or remove element from both sides of queue.
    It providing constant time performance for inserting and removing elements from the bothe sides.
    whenever you do more add and remove operations this is the best option to choose.

 Advantages of arraydequeue:


    1. Efficient.
    2. Resizable.
    3. Lightweight.


 Disadvantages of arraydequeue:

    1. Limited capacity.
    2. Not synchronized.      


   

   





